The concept of document has been defined as “any concrete or symbolic indication, 
preserved or recorded, for reconstructing or for proving a phenomenon, whether physical 
or mental" (Briet, 1951, 7; here quoted from Buckland, 1991).A much cited article asked 
"what is a document" and concluded this way: “The evolving notion of ‘‘document’’ among 
(Jonathan Priest). Otlet, Briet, Schürmeyer, and the other documentalists increasingly
 emphasized whatever functioned as a document rather than traditional physical forms of 
documents. The shift to digital technology would seem to make this distinction even more 
important. Levy’s thoughtful analyses have shown that an emphasis on the technology of digital 
documents has impeded our understanding of digital documents as documents (e.g., Levy, 1994[2]). 
A conventional document, such as a mail message or a technical report, exists physically in
 digital technology as a string of bits, as does everything else in a digital environment. 
As an object of study, it has been made into a document. It has become physical evidence by
 those who study it.Value of document research exemplified: Aviation to many is an esoteric
 subject. It is an intricate combination of men, machines and environment. Because of the 
technological façade that predominates aviation, people are almost unaware of its aesthetic
 make up particularly that of flight. This has serious implications for aviation education. 
Even the professionals handling safety of flights and passengers are sort of realization of 
literary values of aviation that basically deals with flights. Scholarly intervention for educating 
youths and aviation professionals on matters of safety, too, is rare. The object of one’s 
research may be the aviation documents dedicated to safety of flights and human beings that 
travel by air which contains plethora of concrete and symbolic indications of physical and mental
 phenomena that it has recorded. These indications have not been addressed in a manner that 
could contribute to peoples’ arousal, awareness and interest towards aviation. The study may
 be designed to claim that the deep structure of aviation safety documents posit philosophical 
and literary features of high aesthetic and educational values, which the study seeks to explore.
 These ontological and literary values can be elaborated in a way that facilitates creating rich
 aviation literature having implications for disciplinary education of the aviation professionals
 at work for safety. The implications of study for research intervention at tertiary university 
level may also be discussed. A qualitative researcher may undertake to analyse the text
 inductively as well as deductively within post structural critical perspective utilizing 
interpretive auto-ethnographic strategy. (Baral, Saurabh R., 2014. Aviation English: A study 
of the ontological and literary dimensions of aviation safety documents and their implications
 for aviation education. A concept proposal for PhD in English. Self)